"Some day, he said, I shall put it all down for other boys to learn."
"We have made the scout an expert in Life craft as well as Wood craft, for he is trained in the things of the heart as well as head and hand."
"What Scouting Means In all ages there have been scouts, the place of the scout being on the danger line of the army or at the outposts, protecting those of his company who confide in his care."
"It was this characteristic of Livingstone, the great explorer, that made him what he was, and that has marked the career of all good scouts."
"To tell how fast the animal which made the tracks was going; to tell whether he was frightened, suspicious, or otherwise."
"One of the chief characteristics of the scout is to be able to live in the open, know how to put up tents, build huts, throw up a lean to for shelter, or make a dugout in the ground, how to build a fire, how to procure and cook food, how to bind logs together so as to construct bridges and rafts, and how to find his way by night as well as by day in a strange country."
"Living in the open in this way, and making friends of the trees, the streams, the mountains, and the stars, gives a scout a great deal of confidence and makes him love the natural life around him."
Another way to remind himself is to wear his scout badge reversed until he has done his good turn.
In addition to these the scout should be a lover of his country.
"Scout Virtues There are other things which a scout ought to know and which should be characteristic of him, if he is going to be the kind of scout for which the Boy Scouts of America stand."
A scout ought to be loyal to all to whom he has obligations.
"A scout's self respect will cause him to value his own standing and make him sympathetic toward others who may be, on the one hand, worse off, or, on the other hand, better off as far as wealth is concerned."
"When it is a scout's duty to do something, he dare not shirk."
A scout is faithful to his own interest and the interests of others.
"If a boy scout does not prove his thoughtfulness and friendship for animals, it is quite certain that he never will be really helpful to his comrades or to the men, women, and children who may need his care."
"If there is no patrol near you, get some man interested enough to start one by giving him all the information."
"The motto, Be Prepared, means that the scout is always in a state of readiness in mind and body to do his duty."
"The Chinese claim its use among them as early as B. C., and we have definite information that it was used at sea by them as early as A. D. Marco Polo brought the compass to Europe on his return from Cathay."
"Its scroll is turned up at the ends like a scout's mouth, because he does his duty with a smile and willingly."
"Where no local council has been formed, application for badges should be sent direct to Headquarters, signed by the registered scout master of the troop, giving his official number."
"When taking this oath the scout will stand, holding up his right hand, palm to the front, thumb resting on the nail of the little finger and the other three fingers upright and together."
WILD BOAR Grunt Broof broof GRAY AND PINK COBRA Hiss Pssst ORANGE AND BLACK CUCKOO Call Cook koo GRAY OTTER Cry Hoi oi oick BROWN AND WHITE BEAVER Slap made by clapping bands BLUE AND YELLOW continued Each scout in a patrol should be able to imitate the call of his patrol animal.
When the scout makes signs anywhere for others to read he also draws the head of his animal.
These badges are intended to stimulate the boy's interest in the life about him and are given for general knowledge.
The wearing of these badges does not signify that a scout is qualified to make his living by the knowledge gained in securing the award_.
"Make the required athletic standard according to his weight, classifications and conditions as stated in chapter eight."
Have satisfactorily passed the requirements to receive a license to operate an automobile in the community in which he lives.
Know how the principal officers in his town or city are elected and for what terms.
Have secured at least two tenants in bird boxes erected by himself.
"Have attracted at least three kinds of birds, exclusive of the English sparrow, to a lunch counter which he has supplied."
Print a handbill set up by himself.
This medal is awarded to a scout who saves life with considerable risk to himself.
The Indian was as much puzzled by my preference for the quill work as I was by his for the cotton print.
"The classical legend has it that the nymph Calisto, having violated her vow, was changed by Diana into a bear, which, after death, was immortalized in the sky by Zeus."
"Knowing the Birds It is no easy matter, this trying to get to know the birds; but scouts are not looking for the easiest jobs, and it is great sport for them to follow some shy songster through the briery thicket until a really good look can be had, to sit stock still for half an hour to watch some unknown bird come home to her nest, or to wriggle on all fours through the grass to have a glimpse over the top of the knoll at the ducks in the pool beyond."
"After a time even the flight of a bird or its song will be enough to reveal an old acquaintance, just as you can often recognize a boy friend by his walk or the sound of his voice, without seeing his face."
"Only a foolish scout would rob himself of his chance to observe the secrets of nest life by stealing the contents, or would take any delight in piling up a collection of egg shells whose value at its best is almost nothing, and whose acquisition is necessarily accompanied by genuine heart pangs on the part of the rightful owners."
"Scouts are the birds' police, and wo betide the lad who is caught with a nest and eggs, or the limp corpse of some feathered songster that he has slaughtered."
"White lipped snail Among the shy and retiring animals which inhabit our woods and waters, or the borders of the sea, without making themselves conspicuous to man except when he seeks the larger ones for food, are the mollusca, usually confounded with crabs and crayfish under the popular name of shellfish, except the few which have no external shell, which are generally called slugs."
Books which may help the collector to identify the shells he may find are: For the land and fresh water shells: Mollusks of the Chicago Area and The Lymnaeidae of North America.
"Did you ever watch sticklebacks build their barrel like nest, or the Paradise fish his floating nest, and the father fish take all the care of the young"
A scout ought to insist on his scout master going to camp.
A scout's honor will not permit him to disobey in the slightest particular the sanitary rules of his camp.
He will do his part well.
"The evening red, the morning gray Sets the traveler on his way; The evening gray, the morning red Brings down showers upon his head."
"There is none so cunning as the fox, but we can trail him to his lair."
"The deer is more swift of foot, but by craft we overtake him."
Our pride is like that of a partridge drumming on his log in the wood before the fox leaps upon him.
"But to day in the silence before the darkness gives place to light, I seemed to hear a still small voice within my breast, saying to me, 'Wo, the questioner, rise up like the stag from his lair; away, alone, to the mountain of the sun."
"All day long he climbed saying to himself, I will sleep tonight in the teepee of the sun, and he will tell me whence I come and whither I go."
Then the words of the Great Spirit came to him again.
"Looking into the eager faces of longing and questioning, his Spirit moved within him and he spoke: I went, I sought, I found the Great Spirit who dwells in the earth as your spirits dwell in your bodies."
The sailor can then grasp either one as he goes about and there is no danger of losing the paddles overboard.
"Only landlubbers will try to stand up in a small boat while in motion; and, as for the man who rocks a boat for fun, he is like the man who didn't know the gun was loaded."
"These are the inscriptions that every hunter must learn to read infallibly, and be they strong or faint, straight or crooked, simple or overwritten with many a puzzling, diverse phrase, he must decipher and follow them swiftly, unerringly if there is to be a successful ending to the hunt which provides his daily food."
Man is a daytime creature; he is blind in the soft half light that most beasts prefer.
"Now, I said, if you will take the trouble to move that wood pile you will find in it the remains of the rabbit half devoured and the mink himself."
A friend of mine had a pet coon which he kept in a cage in his bachelor quarters up town.
"And the coon, pushing it contemptuously away, turned to a pile of fine hand made, deckle edge, heraldry note paper the pride of my friend's heart and when he raised his inky little paws there were left on the paper some beautiful black prints."
"Something attracted the artist's attention, causing him to jump down."
My friend was sent for to come and take his coon out of there forever.
"But no one has any idea how cross, crooked, and contrary a creature can be, until he wishes it to repeat for him some ordinary things that it has hitherto done hourly."
"A tame cat that was highly trained to do anything a cat could do, was selected as promising for a black track study, and her owner's two boys volunteered to get all the cat tracks I needed."
"As I busied myself making notes, what should come flying up the valley but the owl himself back to the very place of the crime, intent on completing his meal no doubt."
"He alighted on a branch ten feet above my head and just over the rabbit remains, and sat there muttering in his throat."
"The trailer has the key to a new storehouse of Nature's secrets, another of the Sybilline books is opened to his view; his fairy godmother has, indeed, conferred on him a wonderful gift in opening his eyes to the foot writing of the trail."
"When a leader is shouting an order or message to a scout who is some way off, the scout, if he hears what is being said, should hold up his hand level with his head all the time."
"One is that he lives in doors for the greater part of the time, and the other is that he must attend school, which is pretty largely a matter of sitting still."
Always consult a foot specialist for treatment and buy plates if needed on his order.
"When this fluid appears in a boy's body, it works a wonderful change in him."
"These were the days when might was right, and the man with the strongest arm did as he pleased, often oppressing the poor and riding rough shod without any regard over the feelings and affections of others."
"The life, then, of Abraham Lincoln should be a steady inspiration to every boy who wishes to call himself a scout."
"When a scout is walking with a lady or a child, he should always walk on the outside of the sidewalk, so that he can better protect them against the jostling crowds."
"Also in meeting a woman or child, a scout, as a matter of course, should always make way for them even if he himself has to step off the sidewalk into the mud."
"Doctor Raffles once said, I have made it a rule never to be with a person ten minutes without trying to make him happier."
The knight never waited for opportunity to come to him.
There is a story of a Greek god who had only one lock of hair upon his forehead.
"In order to get this ancient god's attention, it was necessary to grip him by his forelock, for when he had passed, nothing could check his speed."
"Individuality If the foregoing qualities enter into a scout's training, an individuality will be developed in him, which will make itself known and felt."
Fair Play: Scorning to take unfair advantage of a rival and readiness even to give up an advantage to him.
The old Indian who had been mortally wounded faced death with a grim smile on his lips and sang his own death song.
for the Roman Caesar upon his lips.
"Loyalty Loyalty is another scout virtue which must stand out prominently, because it is that which makes him true to his home, his parents, and his country."
"They sought him through all the ranks, and every time they met one of these officers they thought they had come face to face with the king."
"The scout should be no less loyal to his parents, home, and country."
"The entire night preceding the day upon which the young esquire was made knight was spent by him on his knees in prayer, in a fast and vigil."
"If a scout meets one of another religion, he should remember that he, too, is striving for the best."
"The recognition of God as the ruling and leading power in the universe, and the grateful acknowledgement of His favors and blessings is necessary to the best type of citizenship and is a wholesome thing in the education of the growing boy."
Its policy is that the organization or institution with which the boy scout is connected shall give definite attention to his religious life.
The good scout is always at work working to improve himself and to improve the daily lot of others.
The enormous loss of life and the great suffering involved certainly demand that every boy scout do what he can to improve conditions in this respect.
"If another person's clothing catches fire, throw him to the ground and smother the fire with a coat, blanket, or rug."
"What To Do in Case of Fire A fire can usually be put out very easily when it starts, and here is an occasion when a scout can show his presence of mind and coolness."
"If a scout discovers a building to be on fire, he should sound the alarm for the fire department at once."
"If you tie the hands of an insensible person together with a handkerchief and put them over your head, you will find it fairly easy to crawl along the floor dragging him with you."
Therefore he must not touch the unfortunate victim unless his own body is thoroughly insulated.
"The rescuer must act very promptly, for the danger to the person in contact is much increased the longer the electric current is allowed to pass through his body."
"If possible, the rescuer should insulate himself by covering his hands with a mackintosh, rubber sheeting, several thicknesses of silk, or even dry cloth."
"What To Do for Electric Shocks Always send for a doctor, but do not wait for him."
"To rescue an unconscious person in a place filled with gas, move quickly and carry him out without breathing yourself."
"Runaway Horses The method for checking a horse running away is not to run out and wave your arm in front of him, as this will only cause him to dodge to one side and to run faster, but to try to run alongside the vehicle with one hand on the shaft to prevent yourself from falling, seizing the reins with the other hand and dragging the horse's head toward you."
"If you can stop the dog with a stick you should hit him hard over the head with it, or kick him under the jaw."
A handkerchief held in front of you in your outstretched hands will generally cause the dog to stop to paw it before he attempts to bite you.
Another way suggested is to wrap a coat around the left arm and let the dog bite it; then with the other hand seize the dog's throat and choke him.
"Commonsense will tell the scout that he must waste no time, however, when there is severe bleeding, or in case of poisoning."
"Don't wait until he arrives, however, to do something for the injured person."
"If the patient's face is pale, place him on his back with his head low."
"Do not give an unconscious person a stimulant, as he cannot swallow, and it will run down his windpipe and choke him."
Part of the load falls upon his body and when you reach him he is unconscious.
In severe shock the person is completely unconscious or he may be only slightly confused and feel weak and uncertain of what has happened.
Rub his arms and legs toward his body but do not uncover him to do this.
"If you have ammonia or smelling salts, place them before the patient's nose so he may breathe them."
"When the patient begins to recover a little, however, and as soon as he can swallow, give him hot tea or coffee, or a half teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in a quarter glass of water."
"When the other scout reaches him, he finds the injured scout lying flat on the ground with both legs stretched out."
"One of these does not look quite natural, and the scout complains of a great deal of pain at the middle of the thigh and thinks he felt something break when he fell."
"It will be a good thing for a scout always to carry a Red Cross First Aid Outfit, or some similar outfit, for with this he is ready to take care of almost any injury; without it he will find it very difficult to improvise anything to cover a wound with safety to the injured person."
"Wounds With Severe Bleeding A scout must be prepared to check severe bleeding at once, and he should then dress the wound."
"Unconsciousness and Poisoning Unconsciousness, of course, means lack of consciousness, or, in other words; one who is unconscious knows nothing of his surroundings or of what is happening."
"If it is not due to one of these causes, and the patient is pale and weak, have him placed with his head low, and warm and stimulate him in every possible way."
"If the face is red and the pulse is bounding and strong, that patient should have his head raised on a folded coat."
A stimulant may be given when the patient is so far recovered that he is able to swallow.
A scout should remember not to expose himself too much to the sun nor should he wear too heavy clothing in the summer.
"If the scout becomes dizzy and exhausted through exposure to the sun he should find a cool place, lie down, and bathe the face, hands, and chest in cold water and drink freely of cold water."
"The patient should be removed to a cool place and his clothing loosened, or better the greater part of it removed."
Remove the patient to a cool place and have him lie down with his clothing loosened.
As soon as the patient can swallow give him stimulants.
"Fits A person in a fit first has convulsive movements of the body, then he usually becomes unconscious."
Put the sufferer on the floor or the ground where he can not hurt himself by striking anything.
Pending his arrival the scout should remember to treat the sufferer for shock as well as to dress the wound.
"If this fails, pull the upper lid over the lower two or three times, close the nostril on the opposite side and have the patient blow his nose hard."
Seat the patient in a chair with his head bent backward.
"To save lives, the scout must know first how to swim, to care for himself, and then to learn to carry another and to break the clutch, the death grip, which we read so much about in the newspaper accounts of drowning accidents."
"Swimming For physical development the breast stroke is useful, for it is one that is used in carrying a tired swimmer and is used to go to the bottom for lost articles and to search for a person who has sunk before help has reached him."
"The tired swimmer lies on the back and, extending his arms fully in front, rests a hand on either shoulder of the swimmer who rests facing him in the regular breast position allowing the feet of the other to drop between his own."
Wrist Grip Of these the simplest is the one where the wrists of the swimmer have been grasped by the drowning man in his struggles.
"The swimmer throws both hands above his head which forces both low in the water and then turns the leverage of his arms against the other's thumbs, breaking the hold easily."
"Back Strangle The back strangle hold is an awkward one to break and one which must be broken without an instant's delay, or the would be rescuer himself will be in great need of help."
"In a life and death struggle, sharper measures are needed, and if the rescuer throws his head suddenly back against the nose of the drowning man, he will secure his freedom very readily and have him under control by the time he has recovered from his dazed condition."
To be effective no time must be lost in getting the apparently drowned person out of the water and getting the water out of him.
The operator kneels astride or beside the prone figure and lets his hands fall into the spaces between the short ribs.
"Sometimes it is necessary to work an hour or two before the flicker of an eyelid or a gasp from the patient rewards the life saver's efforts, and then he must carefully piece in the breathing until natural breathing is resumed."
"Always get the services of a physician as soon as possible, but do not wait for him to come."
"The boy who is the deer for the first hunt takes the dummy under his arm and runs off, getting ten minutes' start, or until he comes back and shouts ready"
"If he misses, the second hunter may step up five paces, and have his shot."
"If the finder is within ten yards on sighting the deer, and misses his shot, the other hunters go back to the ten yard limit."
"The object of the hook is to change suddenly from pushing, and to pull the enemy by hooking round his neck."
If the hunter has to leave the circle he gets one point for every step he takes outside.
"If it is the hider who kills the rabbit, the hunter adds ten points to his score."
"If the hunter hits it, he takes ten off his score."
"If the hunter fails to find all the rabbits, he scores twenty five for each one he gives up."
"The scout should wear a conspicuous badge , and may ride a wheel or go in a wagon, etc., as long as his badge is clearly visible."
Each tries to put the other off his barrel.
It is well to have a catcher behind each player to save him if he falls.
The contestant can at any time end the bout by lowering his head so the strap slips off; but this counts one against him.
"If he hits him, a chip goes into that person's hat; if not, a chip goes into his own."
"The fellow who is it, or keeper, perches his duck on the rock."
"If one does, then the keeper can tag him , and send him to do duty as keeper at the rock."
"If the duck is knocked off by anyone in fair firing, the keeper is powerless till he has replaced it."
"The lion may hide or creep about or run, just as he feels inclined, but whenever the ground is hard or very greasy he must drop a few grains of corn every few yards to show the trail."
"If the lion gets hit by a hunter's tennis ball he is wounded, and if he gets wounded three times he is killed."
Each scout must collect and hand in his tennis balls after the game.
"Scouts go out to find, and each in his own way tries to get up to him unseen."
"Directly the instructor sees a scout, he directs him to stand up as having failed."
"Scout Hunting One scout is given time to go out and hide himself, the remainder then start to find him; he wins if he is not found, or if he can get back to the starting point within a given time without being touched."
"The leader in taking his patrol out to the spot drops scouts at convenient distances, who will then act as runners from one post to the next and back."
"Each scout then in turn whispers to the umpire which man, made the original track describing him by his number in filing past."
Similar Game In doors Send each scout in turn into a room for half a minute; when he comes out take down a list of furniture and articles which he notices.
"This is signified by the patrol leader holding up his patrol flag for the umpire to see, and sounding his whistle."
"Siberian Man Hunt One scout as fugitive runs away across the snow in any direction he may please until he finds a good hiding place, and there conceals himself."
The fugitive must be struck three times before he is counted dead.
"The runner is given time to disappear around the first corner before the others start after him, and at every corner he turns he marks an arrow pointing in the direction he takes."
"Every time a member is struck he is dead, and takes his place among those of the circle."
"Any player caught is conducted to the prison by his captor and must remain there until rescued by some one from his side, who touches him with the hand."
"Details like the following should be chosen to develop the scout's observation and to encourage him to look far and near, up and down, etc."
"If they find them even with field glasses, it counts, provided that the finder can say definitely who it was he spotted."
The scout without the light can often mingle with the pursuers without being recognized and relieve his friend when he is being hard pressed.
"When a miss is made the next player takes his turn, and when the first player's turn comes again he must try the feat over that he failed to perform last."
"This purchase is spoken of in history as Seward's Folly, because the transaction, made while he was secretary of state, was not generally considered a good bargain."
Justly has he been called the Colossus of the Revolution.
"Such a gentleman, he said, I have in mind."
"As many times as you wish, responded the smiling doctor, with a merry twinkle in his eyes."
"While the British at Philadelphia, twenty miles away, have been living in luxury, our Washington and his men have suffered bitterly with hunger and cold; and out of a list of eleven thousand men, three thousand at Valley Forge lay sick at one time."
"Once a subject always a subject, said Great Britain, but our answer in was as it is now: any foreigner after five years' residence within our territory, who has complied with our naturalization laws and taken the oath of allegiance to our flag, becomes one of our citizens as completely as if he were native born."
"Some day you will read the life story of David Glasgow Farragut of whom it is said that, with the exception of Nelson, the great English admiral, he was as great an admiral as ever sailed the broad or narrow seas."
"Admiral Farragut is reported as giving this explanation, in the late years of his life, of his success in the service of his country It was all owing to a resolution that I formed when I was ten years old."
The poem itself is descriptive of what the author saw and felt on the night of September as he watched the bombardment of Fort McHenry by the British during the War of
"In when he was beginning to gain some recognition as a national figure, he was asked to write a little sketch of his life, and in the letter enclosing it he said: There is not much of it, for the reason, I suppose, there is not much of me."
Lincoln's emancipation of the slaves was made only after he had convinced himself it could not be longer deferred and preserve the Union.
The body of the bleeding President was taken to a house across the street where the next morning at o'clock he died.
"The one had culture, wealth, and social position; the other lacked all of these in his early years."
"Lincoln's early life was cradled in the woods, and all of life out of doors had been his in the new and pioneer states of the wilderness."
Doubtless it was the very hardships of life that made him what he was.
"When Washington was in command at Cambridge, in January, the flag used by him consisted of a banner of thirteen red and white stripes with the British Union Jack in the upper left hand comer."
"The Vice president of the United States is the president of the Senate, and the presiding officer of the House of Representatives is chosen by the members from their number; he is called the speaker."
"The members of the Cabinet are such men as the President believes are qualified to serve during his administration of office, and are usually members of the same political party as the President."
"The secretary of state is the representative of our government through whose office the great work of the foreign service is directly carried on, and upon him devolves therefore the great affairs of state relationships with other countries."
"In our country, foreign representatives are received by the President at the White House, or by the secretary of state in his office apartments."
"The people of a state by the same rule elect their chief magistrate and entitle him His Excellency, the Governor ; he is the state's chief or leading citizen."
"The government must do two things: it must protect the person and his personal rights as a citizen, and it must also protect property and the rights of property ownership from enemies within, as from without."
; and every good citizen should lend his hand to help in every way possible the enforcement of law in each department.
"In doing the good turn daily, then, one has abundant opportunity to do his part toward the social betterment of the community in which he lives."
"In the good turn daily, one may be able to help in more ways than one if he is on the lookout."
The man who owned the automobile and was driving it got out and called one of the boys on the street to come over to him.
"If a scout should be employed in such a place, he might make himself very serviceable in case of a fire, because having thought of it beforehand, he would know what to do his motto being, Be Prepared."
"The scout learns through the many activities of scouting something of the market places and sources of supply for food; he has some idea as to the cost of living in his own home, and should become a good marketer himself, making himself competent to judge of the quality and prices of food."
An industrious scout may often make his own pocket money in this way or provide funds towards his own education.
"And, therefore, each generation as it comes and goes must rise or fall in proportion as it raises or lowers the citizenship standard, for each generation must prove its own worth as must each individual his own virtues."
"Let the boy remember also that in addition to courage, unselfishness, and fair dealing, he must have efficiency, he must have knowledge, he must cultivate a sound body and a good mind, and train himself so that he can act with quick decision in any crisis that may arise."
_Compass_: Every scout should learn how to use his watch as a compass.
Illustration: Lanyard _Lanyard_: This piece of equipment is so simple in construction that every scout ought to make his own lanyard.
It is recommended that each scout make his own flags.
"When anyone falls through some ice, throw him your Staff so that he can grasp it like this until you can get a rope and pull him out."
"It has been the aim to give as wide a selection as possible, in order that the boy scout might not fail to find in the local public library, some book on any subject in which he may have particular interest."
The Book of King Arthur and His Noble Knights Mary MacLeod Fred'k A. Stokes The Boys Gughulain Eleanor Hull Crowell Co.
Marching Against the Iroquois Everett T. Tomlinson Marion and His Men John De Morgan David McKay Master of the Strong Hearts E. S. Brooks Off the Rocks Grenfell S. S. Tirnes On the Indian Trail Egerton R. Young Revell Co. On the Old Kearsarge Cyrus Townsend Brady Scribners On General Thomas's Staff Byron A. Dunn McClurg Paul Revere John De Morgan David McKay Peggy Owen Lucy Foster Madison Penn Pub.
Scout Masters' Manual A handbook especially prepared to aid the scout master in his work with boys.
