It is a promise each girl _voluntarily_ makes; it is not a rule of her home nor a command from her school nor a custom of her church.
Experience has shown that she hesitates to break it.
"A Girl Scout's Honor Is To Be Trusted= This means that a Girl Scout's standards of honor are so high and sure that no one would dream of doubting her simple statement of a fact when she says: This is so, on my honor as a Girl Scout."
"Nor does she take pains to do all this only when she is watched, or when somebody stands ready to report on her conduct."
"But a good Scout laughs at this idea, for she knows that these things are expected of all decent people."
"The sick and helpless she has been, as a Scout, especially trained to help, and she is proud of her handiness and knowledge in this way."
"The soldier obeys by instinct, in a great crisis, only because he has had long practice in obeying when it was a question of unimportant matters."
_But she must remember to obey first and complain afterward._ =VIII.
"It has been scientifically proved that if you deliberately _make_ your voice and face cheerful and bright you immediately begin to feel that way; and as cheerfulness is one of the most certain signs of good health, a Scout who appears cheerful is far more likely to keep well than one who lets herself get down in the mouth."
"A Girl Scout may be known by the fact that she is either working, playing or resting."
"Health is probably a woman's greatest capital, and a Girl Scout looks after it and saves it, and doesn't waste it by poor diet and lack of exercise and fresh air, so that she goes bankrupt before she is thirty."
A girl who saves more than she spends may be niggardly; a girl who spends more than she saves may go in debt.
"If every Girl Scout in America realized that she might make all the difference, some day, between a bankrupt family and a family with a comfortable margin laid aside for a rainy day, she would give a great deal of attention to this Scout law."
"*       *       *       *       * The women of Oregon have raised a statue to this young explorer, and there she stands in Portland, facing the Coast, pointing to the Columbia River where it reaches the sea."
"And so we Scouts, not to lose this great spirit, study the stars and the sun and the trees and try to learn a few of the wood secrets she knew so well."
"And let every Scout who finds housework dull, and feels that she is capable of bigger things, remember this: the woman whose books for girls are more widely known than any such books ever written in America, had to drop the pen, often and often, for the needle, the dish-cloth and the broom."
Perhaps it is only the truth to say that the war showed our country what we could Be Prepared to do for her!
"One of our most experienced and best loved Captains says that a camp is as much a necessity for the Girl Scouts as an office headquarters, and more and more girls are learning to agree with her every year."
_Stalking._--A Guide has to be sharp at seeing           things if she is going to be any good as a Guide.
"A hunter when he is stalking wild animals keeps           himself entirely hidden, so does the war scout           when watching or looking for the enemy; a           policemen does not catch pickpockets by standing           about in uniform watching for them; he dresses           like one of the crowd, and as often as not gazes           into a shop window and sees all that goes on           behind him reflected as if in a looking-glass."
[Illustration: Lame Horse Walking: Which leg is he lame in?
With a little practice in observation you can tell           pretty accurately a man's character from his           dress.
"Well, Sherlock Holmes guessed correctly that           he had lately retired from the Royal Marines as a           sergeant, that his wife had died, and that he had           some small children at home."
"The Captain must have prepared the candidate for enrollment by explaining the meaning of the Promise and the Laws and making sure that she fully understands the meaning of the oath she is about to make, and that she also comprehends the meaning of honor."
"All four repeat the Promise together and the officer addresses all together in saying: I trust you on your honor to keep this Promise, but speaks to each separately as she puts on the pin."
A Captain may perform this ceremony or she may ask some higher Scout officer to do so.
"_Presentation of Golden Eaglet._--As the presentation of the Golden Eaglet is an important occasion in the life of a Scout and her Troop, it should take place at a public Scout function, such as a District or Community Rally, a reception to a distinguished guest of the Scouts, or possibly at the time of a civic celebration."
"The Patrol Leader escorts the Eaglet to the Captain, salutes the Captain and returns to her position in line."
"The Chairman of the Court of Awards comes forward, the Captain faces her, salutes, and presents the Eaglet to her."
"After the presentation, the Eaglet turns, and facing her Captain and Troop, stands at attention as the Colors are raised, the Scout flag dipped, and the Troop salutes."
The Eaglet returns the salute and then marches to her position in line.
After the Colors have left the square the Lieutenant takes her position at the left of the leading file.
"They are designed to meet the necessity for expressing at each stage of the Scout's progress, recognition of her achievement up to that point and appreciation of her future responsibilities."
_Captain dismisses Second Class Scouts to their           Troop position._           (_Here the Captain may address the Troop at her           discretion._) 3.
"This test may be given by the Troop Captain, or at her request by another Captain or competent authority, such as a registered nurse for bedmaking, health officer for First Aid, fire chief for fire prevention, and so forth."
"Demonstrate ability to observe quickly and           accurately by describing the contents of a room or           a shop window, _or_ a table with a number of           objects upon it, after looking a short time, (not           more than ten seconds); _or_ describe a passer-by           so that another person could identify him; _or_           prove ability to make a quick rough report on the           appearance and landmarks of a stretch of country,           not to exceed one-quarter of a mile and to be           covered in not more than five minutes."
"I gave           it to Mr Mason soon after it was written, and           have since learned that he greatly admired it."
_Letter and facts from The Encyclopedia Americana._ Battle Hymn of the Republic   Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord:   He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored;   He hath loosed the fateful lightning of His terrible swift sword;                 His truth is marching on.
"Tenderfoot Drill Schedule FALL IN At this command each Scout immediately takes her position in the Patrol to which she belongs (the captain having already assigned to each Scout her exact place), and without further order assumes the position of _Attention_ three paces in front of Captain."
"[2] At the command _Front,_ given when the ranks are aligned, each Scout turns her head and eyes to the front and drops the hand at her side."
Instructors should always face the class in giving a lesson; in this way the pupil learns to read at the same time as she is learning to make the letters.
But she does not salute when she herself           is singing.
So the Girl Scout will make up her mind what will fit her house; and of course this means also what will fit the family purse.
The Fireless Cooker When a Girl Scout gets to thinking about all the work to be done in a kitchen she will ask some very important questions.
How much work is to be done?
How long does it take to do it?
The bright Girl Scout will keep her eyes open to see how foods are taken care of in the house; which foods must be kept in the cellar; which ones must be stored on the shelves of dry closets; which ones come in sealed parcels; which in paper bags; which in boxes; which in barrels.
Labor Saving The housekeeper must learn how to do her work in the least possible time; she must save steps.
"THE GIRL SCOUT COOK BY ULA M. DOW, A. M. _In charge of Division of Food, Simmons College_ The Girl Scout who has earned the Cooking Badge may be a great help at home if she has learned to work quickly and neatly and may get much amusement both at home and on camping parties."
"If the first trial of a process is not a success, the Scout should have patience to try again and again until her result is satisfactory."
MEAT--The best way to learn about cuts of meat is to go often to market and talk to the butcher whenever he has a minute to spare.
"General Suggestions If the Girl Scout who is preparing for her examination will look back over the menus which have been suggested, she will notice that milk is emphasized."
"Before starting to prepare a meal the Scout should not only have her menu in mind, but should have an idea how long it will take to prepare each dish so that everything will be ready to serve at the same time with all the hot dishes very hot and all the cold dishes very cold."
The following table is given for frequent reference use by the Girl Scout while earning her badges in Homecraft.
"A Girl Scout thinks for herself, and knowing the Health Laws, she knows the important things to consider in caring for children:           1."
"Punctual feeding makes good digestion, and even if the baby takes an extra nap it is better to wake a healthy baby to give him his meals at regular hours than to let his digestion get out of order."
Keep the baby and everything around him clean.
"_Carelessness at Home._ As for example, starting the fire with kerosene; leaving gas jets burning where curtains of clothing may be blown into the flame; leaving clothing or paper too near a fire; throwing matches you thought had been put out into paper or other material which will catch fire easily; leaving oily or greasy rags where they will easily overheat or take fire spontaneously; leaving objects on stairs and in hallways which will cause others to fall; leaving scalding water where a child may fall into it or pull it down, spilling the scalding water over himself; leaving rags or linoleum with upturned edges for someone to fall over; and innumerable other careless things which will occur to you."
"After the Accident When the time for prevention is past, and the accident has happened, then you want to know what is the best thing to do, and how best to do it in order to give the most help and relief immediately, before expert help can arrive, and to have the victim in the best condition possible for the doctor when he comes, in order that he may not have to undo whatever has been done before he can begin to give the patient relief from his suffering."
"The patient needs fresh air to breathe, and space around him."
"If the patient can, he supports himself by putting his arms around the necks of his carriers, each of whom in the meantime grasps one of his own wrists and one of his partner's."
"(c) _Improvised Stretcher._ When the patient shows any sign of shock, is unconscious, has a serious fracture of some bone or bones, has a serious injury to any part of the body, or is bleeding excessively, he must be carried lying down."
"If possible put the patient flat on his back, with the head slightly lower than the rest of the body."
"If there is not room to do this, bend the patient over with his head between the knees until sufficient blood has returned to the brain to restore consciousness."
"When the patient has recovered sufficiently to swallow, give him a glass of cold water, with one-half teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia if necessary."
Remove the patient to a cool place and have him lie down.
When the object is not too far down the throat it may be necessary for someone to use his fingers to pull out the offending substance to keep the patient alive until the doctor can arrive.
"A person may be falling and in trying to save himself catch hold of something in such a way that he feels a sharp, sudden, severe pain, and may even feel the head of the bone slip out at the shoulder or elbow."
"_Treatment_--Send for a doctor at once, and if it will be possible for him to arrive soon, make the patient as comfortable as possible and wait for him."
"You must handle the part injured and the patient with the utmost gentleness to avoid making a simple fracture into a compound one, or doing other injury, and also to give him as little additional suffering as possible."
"(a) SERIOUS WOUNDS; (b) SERIOUS BLEEDING Send for the doctor at once, and then stop the bleeding and keep as clean as possible till he arrives."
"After the tourniquet is on and bleeding is stopped, if the patient is very weak, he may have a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in half a glass of water."
"The patient may or may not be unconscious, but he may take no notice of what is going on around him."
"Lay the patient flat on his back with head low, so that the heart can more easily pump the blood back into the brain."
Lay the patient flat on his back with head slightly raised.
"Lay the patient flat on his back, and prevent him from hurting himself in his twisting, but do not try to stop convulsive movement."
It will do no good.
"When the patient can swallow, give him stimulants."
"The treatment for dog bite is therefore as follows: _Immediate._ Send for a physician, telling him the reason."
"To do this, place the hands on either side of the drowning person's head, and tow him floating on his back with the face above the surface of the water, while you swim on your back and keep the body away from you."
"_Wrist Grip_--If the drowning person grasps the rescuer's wrists, the rescuer throws both hands above his head, which forces both low in the water, and then turns the leverage of his arms against the other's thumbs and breaks the grip."
"Then take a full breath and apply your knee to the other's stomach quickly, thus forcing him to expel any air in his lungs and preventing him from getting more air by the hand on mouth and nostrils."
"If this is not successful, do not despair, but throw the head suddenly against the nose of the drowning person and then slip out of the grip before he recovers from his daze."
"ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION If the apparently drowned person is to be saved, no time must be lost in the rescue from the water or in getting the water out of him, and breathing re-established after he is brought to land."
Kneel astride of the patient facing toward his head.
The patient should be watched carefully for an hour or two even after he is considered out of danger.
"Gas is lighter than air, and therefore will not be found close to the floor and it will often be possible to crawl out when one would be overcome by the gas if he tried to walk out."
The patient is usually unable to release himself from the wire.
"The first thing to be done, if possible, is to turn off the current by means of the switch, but if this cannot be done _at once_, the patient must be rescued by pulling him away from the wire."
Lay the patient flat on his back.
"If the fire is in the clothing of another, wrap him in the nearest thing available, lay him on the floor and roll him over, smothering the flames as described before."
"_Send for the doctor at once_, telling him what kind of poison you think the patient has taken in order that he may bring the right antidote and the right implements to give the quickest and most effective relief."
"This will be more comfortable for the patient, allowing him to carry the arm easily in a sling and also permit him to use the hand to some extent if the nature of the injury will permit."
Great cleanliness is necessary not only for her own protection but to prevent illness spreading.
"If the temperature of the room is as high as 70 degrees and the sick person is cold, it is better to give her a hot water bag and to put on more covers than to shut the windows, thus keeping out the fresh air."
The draw sheet is so called because its proper use is to be drawn through under the patient without greatly disturbing her and give her a cool fresh place to lie on.
"(If the patient feels cold, leave as many blankets as necessary to keep her warm.)"
"Now lift the patient's feet over the roll of fresh and soiled linen to the freshly made part, then have her roll her body over that side."
"Very often, however, a person in bed is quite able to bathe herself, with a little help, if the necessary things are brought to her."
Always let a patient try it herself with her hand and arm before getting in.
"These are frequently needed under the heels, particularly for a patient lying on her back."
Have the patient clasp her hands around your waist.
The person on the left side of the bed should place the right arm as though she were doing the lifting alone.
"Throw a blanket over all corner-wise, to wrap around the patient when she sits down."
"Have the patient sit up in bed, and help her to swing her feet over the edge."
Turn and let her sit down slowly.
Place the chair so that she will be out of drafts and so that the light does not shine directly into her face.
"Another way is to hold the person's hand as though taking the pulse, having her rest her hand and forearm lightly on the chest and count the rise and fall."
Watch and prevent patient from hurting herself.
"Either send for the doctor or take the patient to him, as there may be a developing abscess which needs to be opened."
"Before settling a sick person for the night, be sure that everything about the room is done, as any moving about after she is prepared to sleep may tend to disturb her and prevent her from going to sleep."
"It is a subject which women are sure to take up more and more, and a Girl Scout who has given the matter a little thought and study is going to make a good citizen later on, and will be certain to have her advice asked--and taken--in the matter of making her town healthy and happy."
"_Stand Tall_--Every Scout should be recognized a long way off, not only by her uniform, but by her erect carriage."
"Even the strongest horse could not pull a wagon with his teeth very far, or pull something tied only to the back leg muscles."
"_Keep Clean_--A Girl Scout should be sure that the air, water and food that she allows to enter her body are clean."
Can you tell why the rabbit puts his hind feet down ahead of his front ones as he runs?
Evening red and morning gray           Sends the traveler on his way.
Allah reckons not against a man's allotted time the days he spends in the chase.
"EDIBLE WILD PLANTS No one truly knows the woods until he can find with certainty a number of wild plants that furnish good food for man in the season when food is scarce; that is, in the winter or early spring."
"That is the simple white spot meaning, _Here is the trail._ The Indian in making it may nick off an infinitesimal speck of bark with his knife, the trapper with his hatchet may make it as big as a dollar, or the settler with his heavy axe may stab off half the tree-side; but the sign is the same in principle and in meaning, on trunk, log, or branch from Atlantic to Pacific and from Hudson Strait to Rio Grande."
This mark must be simple and legible and was chosen because of something connected with the owner or his family.
"Each Scout should carry her knapsack on her back, to leave the hands free."
'One wraps himself in a woolen blanket to keep warm--to keep the heat _in_.
When one must use well-water let him note the surrounding drainage.
Certain well defined duties to perform for her Patrol.
"[Illustration: LUNCHEON FIRE] If one would have good meals cooked out of doors, and would save much time and vexation; in other words, if he wants to be comfortable in the woods, he must learn how to produce at will either (1) a quick, hot little fire that will boil water in a jiffy, and will soon burn down to embers that are not too ardent for frying; or (2) a solid bed of long-lived coals that will keep up a steady, glowing, smokeless heat for baking, roasting or slow boiling; or (3) a big log fire that will throw its heat forward on the ground, and into a tent or lean-to, and will last several hours without replenishing."
"One can easily make nut butter of any kind (except almonds or Brazil nuts) for himself by using the nut grinder that comes with a kitchen food chopper, and can add ground dates, ground popcorn, or whatever he likes; but such preparations will soon grow rancid if not sealed airtight."
"Most fruits are laxative, and for that reason, if none other, a good proportion of dried fruit should be included in the ration, no matter how light one travels; otherwise one is likely to suffer from constipation when he changes from 'town grub' to 'trail grub.'"
"Citric acid crystals may be used in lieu of lemons when going light, but the flavor is not so good as that of lemonade powder that one can put up for himself."
Nature reserves her choicest beauties and secrets for those who know how to conquer all difficulties.
"The rations for those who wish to climb to high places must necessarily be condensed, for each Scout must carry her own rations for two weeks."
"Mother Nature has many, many secrets which she will reveal to sharp eyes and alert minds."
"The baby Opossums--from six to a dozen of them--are born when very small and undeveloped and are immediately placed by the mother in an external pouch, where they continue to grow until they are too large to get into their mother's pocket; then they frequently ride upon their mother's back, clinging to her fur with their finger-like toes and wrapping their tails about their mother's tail."
"Every farmer and gardener must cultivate his crops and fight the weeds which are always crowding out the plants he is trying to raise, and in this fight he is helped by a great many birds of various kinds."
Find out where the mother-fish lays her eggs.
A Girl Scout who proposes to make a garden will naturally ask herself certain questions.
"My wish for every Girl Scout who undertakes a garden is that she may have all these satisfactions, and may follow all these delightful paths that lead to knowledge, and through knowledge to joy."
How often a housekeeper wishes she could tell about how much material to buy for this or that purpose without getting the yard stick and measuring.
"Knowing a delightful road or trail, one can by a map guide others to it, or by making a map of a city, or country district helps a stranger to find his way about."
"One succeeded, but the rope slipped through his hands almost immediately because there was neither a loop nor a knot to hold on to."
Nobody compels any Scout to earn these Badges; she deliberately chooses to do so.
Should a child be picked up or fed every time           he cries?
What are the duties of the President of the           United States and of each of his Cabinet?
"A certificate may be presented from a Domestic Science teacher, or from the mother if the Captain knows her and can testify to her competency to judge."
A Scout farmer may have her chief interest in rearing animals but she should know something about the main business of the farmer which is tilling the soil.
"AND she must also have planted and cultivated a small vegetable garden like the one described in the Handbook, in the Section The Girl Scout's Own Garden OR B."
Vegetable raising A Scout may make her main interest the raising of some sort of vegetable or fruit and may do one of the following:           1.
"--There are some excellent State Floras, and in order to keep this list from being too long, it is suggested that the Scout leader write to the Professor of Botany in her State University and ask for the name, author and publisher of the best Flora of her State."
"Unless the badge is to be presented to the           Captain herself, her recommendation is required."
