"Steadily, unflinchingly, we strive to pierce the inmost heart of Nature, from what she is, to reconstruct what she has been, and to prophesy what she yet shall be."
"Veil after veil we have lifted, and her face grows more beautiful, august and wonderful with every barrier that is withdrawn."
Nearly everyone has had evidences of Mind Reading or Thought Transference in his or her own life.
"Many of us have suddenly found ourselves thinking of a person who had been out of our minds for months, or years, when all of a sudden the person himself would appear."
"These occurrences have given rise to the two common sayings, viz., Speak of the devil and his imps appear, or Speak of angels and you hear the rustle of their wings."
Mr Creery regarding a number of experiments he had conducted with his four children.
"No one was allowed to leave the room after the object had been fixed upon; no communication with the child was conceivable, as her place was often changed."
"The Transmitter, with closed eyes, now took his position immediately back of Mr Smith, but at a distance of two feet from him, no contact being allowed, this precaution being taken to obviate charges of confederacy, etc."
"The Transmitter would then concentrate his mind intently for a few minutes, and in a short time Mr Smith would receive the impression of the mental image in the mind of the Transmitter, and would begin to attempt to reproduce it on paper."
"On one occasion, in order to be doubly guarded against collusion, they closed Mr Smith's ears with putty, tied a bandage around his eyes and ears, pulled a bolster-case over his head, and then covered him all over with a blanket which completely enveloped his body and head."
The only advantage the performer gained by resorting to these unfair methods was that it was less fatiguing to his mind and enabled him to fake through the performance with less mental wear and tear.
"Of course some of the public may prefer to accept this erroneous theory, but we wish to say here positively that if any person will honestly investigate for himself, and will learn to make the demonstrations personally, he or she will soon discover that muscle reading has nothing to do with the genuine phenomena."
"The Receiver being in a passive condition, and his brain sending practically no impulses over his nerves, he is in a receptive condition to the imparted nervous current, which acts upon him something like an impulse from his own brain, only weaker."
"The fact that the developed Contact Mind Reader usually walks ahead of his Transmitter, instead of being led by him; and that he usually allows the latter's arm to hang limp, instead of muscularly contracted, is another proof of the absurdity of the theory above mentioned."
"Of course, the average public performer soon discovers that the average patron of his performance attends principally to be amused, and entertained, rather than to be instructed."
"But notwithstanding this fact, the average public Mind Reader, in spite of his sensational additions, generally gives his audience enough of the real thing to render his performance of sufficient scientific interest to make it worthy of attendance by the earnest student of the subject."
We are taking it for granted that the student will wish to act as a Receiver (or Performer of the feat of Mind Reading) rather than as the Transmitter (or person called upon to have his mind read).
"The student should practice privately with the assistance of a few friends, before he ventures before a parlor audience, for by so doing he overcomes the first lack of confidence in himself, and the awkwardness natural to the beginner along any new line of work."
"It is used by occultists in the sense of: having harmonious vibrations with another, the occult teachings being that every person has his or her own rate of mental vibration which, when in harmonious accord with the vibrations of another, induces the most favorable conditions for the production of mental or psychic phenomena, or mental relations; sympathetic understanding, etc."
"By breathing a little loud the other person will catch your time, so that it is not necessary for you to instruct him in the science or theory of Rhythmic Breathing."
"The prime requisite for a successful demonstration of Mind Reading is the acquirement, or possession, by the Transmitter, of a clear idea of _direction_ in his mind."
"He must _will_ that you shall _go there_, carrying the words _Go There!_ in his mind."
"When you find a lazy Transmitter who is sending only feeble messages, you must remonstrate with him, telling him that he must exercise his _Will-Power_ more."
"In the first place, I must ask that you refrain from conversation, laughter, etc., while I am demonstrating, for these things distract the mind of the Transmitter and prevent him from concentrating his Mind and Will upon mine; and also prevent me from maintaining that Passive Mental State which is essential to the success of the experiments."
You should impress upon the Transmitter that it is the _strength of his Will_ that produces the mental vibrations that give you the impressions.
Then the thief should hide his spoil in a safe place about the room.
Returning to the room you are to find each person; lead him or her to the former spot; then reconstruct the group.
"There is one point, however, that must be remembered in this feat, and that is that the Transmitter should know just whose hat is held in your hand--just who the owner of that particular hat is and where he is sitting or standing."
"If your Transmitter does not seem to be Concentrating properly, you should speak to him firmly, but kindly, about it."
"(The student is here advised to turn to the conclusion of Lesson VI, of this book, and acquaint himself with the Simpler Method there described."
"If by the lack of concentration of the Transmitter, you fail to feel the heavy feeling when you pick up the right card, the shake of the head will be apt to arouse him to exert his _Will_ more actively, and you will receive the hold on impulse immediately."
"If the table is used, you should stand before it, the Transmitter in his usual place."
"You will find that the principal trouble is at the start, for once you are started on the right track, your Transmitter's Will will be freely employed, and he will pour the impressions into you."
Have the Transmitter hold the figure in his mind and _mentally draw it_ as you proceed.
"The performer receives his impressions from members of the committee who are seated beside him on the carriage seat, with their arms on his shoulders, or having hold of his hands, or even connected with him by wire."
Of course one must have cultivated a great degree of sensitiveness to mental impressions before he will be able to receive and respond to the direction impressions in this case.
"Rushing through the public streets, dragging the Transmitter with him, the performer finds the post-office in the usual way, and then locates the lock-box, into which he inserts the key and extracts the letter, thus triumphantly completing the feat."
"If the student wishes to do so, he may invent a dozen similar feats, just as sensational and just as effective."
The student of this work should have acquired a sufficient knowledge of its underlying principles to enable him to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious when he sees an exhibition.
"While the Contact Mind Reading which we have described and explained is surely wonderful enough to attract the attention of all thinking minds, still when the advanced student passes on to the field of the Higher Phenomena he is destined to meet with marvelous results which in some cases almost surpass belief."
"Have the Transmitter sit in his room at the appointed time, gazing intently at some small simple object, such as a knife, a glass, a cup, a book, etc., and endeavoring to make _a clear mental picture of it_, which picture he should also _Will_ to be reproduced in your mind."
"The Transmitter concentrates his thought and Will in the usual manner, while the Receiver places himself in the usual receptive, passive state of mind, and awaits the impressions."
"As a further suggestion to the student, we would refer him to Lesson II of this work, to the report of the experiments with Mr Smith and Mr Blackburn."
