"The successful farmer must be a skilled laborer, no matter the amount of his manual work."
"The unskilled farmer can never succeed largely, no matter how hard he works."
"Before the deed is signed and delivered, the buyer should know that he is getting a clear title to the property described in the conveyance."
In the quit-claim deed the grantor conveys to the purchaser his interest in or right to the property under consideration.
"If the wife of the grantor is to sign, her name should follow that of her husband."
"If there is one lawyer who attends to all your legal business, he will be a good custodian of all papers of record, for he usually has a fireproof safe."
"The trustee in this case is the agent for debtor and creditor, and he must act impartially."
The man who mortgages his property is the mortgagor.
"It may be cancelled or changed in any way by the maker before his death, or a new will can be made."
The wife's dower interest in her husband's estate is a life interest only.
"If an heir at law, say a child, is not mentioned in the will, the law assumes that he was forgotten by the testator and generally gives the share the heir would be entitled to if there were no will."
"Should there be no executor named in the will, or if the person so named refuses to act, or if he dies or resigns, the court will appoint a person to act in his place."
"A person, interested in getting the estate settled, goes before the proper judge and asks him to appoint an administrator."
The administrator must account for every item of property that comes into his possession.
"The administrator must advertise, in one or more county papers the fact that he has been appointed to settle the estate of the deceased, whose name is given, and he must ask that all claims be presented within a given period, usually fixed at six months."
"When the estate is settled to the satisfaction of the court, the same authority releases the administrator and his bondsmen."
"THE FINAL SETTLEMENT When the debts are paid and the residue divided among the heirs, the administrator files his account."
This will enable the recipient to direct his reply.
"If you are about to hire a stranger, it adds to your confidence and to his chances if he have a testimonial as to character and fitness from his last employer, or from some man whose word you value."
"TITLES The President of the United States is addressed as: ""His Excellency,""   William H. Taft,     Executive Mansion,       Washington, D. C. Cabinet officers, Senators, Congressmen, members of the Legislature, and Mayors of cities are usually addressed as ""Hon.,"" the abbreviation of honorable."
The merchant sends you an itemized invoice of the goods you ordered and he has shipped.
"Not only should the farmer keep cash accounts, the form may be quite simple, but all his business affairs should be kept in the best possible trim."
Banks have facilities for the safe-guarding of money which the ordinary business man could not provide for himself.
"If a man's business reputation is good, and the banks keep well posted in such matters, he may secure a loan on his own note, though even in such cases the name of a good endorser is required."
"If a depositor withdraws his money before the day when interest is due, he forfeits the interest."
The depositor in such a bank is free to check out his funds as he pleases.
"A depositor, when opening an account with a bank is required to place his signature in a book kept for the purpose."
"HOW TO PREPARE A CHECK A check may be defined to be ""a written order on a bank directing it to pay a certain sum of money to the person named in the check or to his order, and signed by a depositor."""
"A person having money in bank and wishing to draw for his own use, makes his check payable to ""self"" or to ""cash."""
HOW TO DRAW MONEY A savings bank depositor may either draw money himself or through some properly authorized person.
The owner states the sum he wants to draw.
"If an indorser, that is, one into whose hands the note has come after the first endorsement, should not wish to guarantee payment, he writes before his name, ""Without recourse to me."""
"If the maker of such a note refuses to pay on the expiration of time stated, he is liable for the amount without any notification."
"In the protest formal objection is made against the breaking of the promise, and demanding that the matter be set right by the maker, or on his failure, by the indorser."
The maker in this case is a friend who loans his name.
"When the maker of a lost note pays the amount to the original owner, he should receive from him what is known as a ""bond of indemnity."""
If a person who cannot write makes a note his mark should be properly witnessed.
If a note made by a minor is acknowledged when he comes of age it is binding and collectible.
"Mr Taylor writes the word ""accepted,"" with the date and his name across the face of the draft, and if he does not pay cash, he states in the writing where payment will be made."
Anyone may sell postage stamps as he would any other personal asset.
"SPECIAL DELIVERY The purpose of what is known, in connection with the post office, as the ""Special Delivery System"", is to insure the delivery of any letter or package to the person, to whom it is addressed, as soon as it reaches his post office."
The holder of an order will not get his money unless he is known to the paying postmaster or is identified.
"The party to whom orders are transferred must go through the same forms at the office, where payment is made, as if he was the original payee."
"If the person to receive the money is an entire stranger in the place to which the money is sent, the sender knows it, and he provides for the situation by signing, on the reverse of the application, an order to the distant operator to pay the money to the person named within, without further identification."
The express agent is sure to collect the bill before he lets the goods leave his keeping.
To complete the order the sender should sign his name in a place indicated for the purpose on the back of the paper.
"The receiver of an express money order can have it cashed at the express office in his town, or sign it and place it in his own bank as if it were cash."
"If every good citizen could be brought to see that his private interests are closely linked with public affairs, he would take more interest in the local politics of his town and county, and so have a voice in the expenditure of taxes by selecting the best men to do the work for him."
"When the merchant sells his goods to the retailer or consumer, he adds the tariff to his freight, insurance, interest, etc., as direct purchase cost."
The intention of all tax laws is to have every citizen's contribution bear the same proportion to the whole amount to be raised that his possessions bear to the aggregate property of all the owners in the commonwealth.
"No matter where a man's personal property is placed, the rule is to tax him for the whole at the place of his usual residence."
"The landlord and the merchant each pays a direct tax to the collector, but it would be a business error to think that in so doing either or both is carrying more than his share of the total taxation."
The landlord keeps in mind the added expense when he comes to adjust leases with his tenants.
Every good citizen should feel that his public duty is an important private business.
"SUBLETTING If there is no contract to the contrary, the tenant may sublet the whole or any part of the premises, but this does not release him from liability for rent."
"If the tenant fails to leave the property when his lease has expired, the owner may make his demand through what is known as a ""notice to quit,"" which must be served on the tenant in person."
A BILL OF SALE This is a written agreement by which one person transfers to another his interest in certain personal property.
The law lays down no rule as to the form.
"The purpose of the insurer, if he take out the policy in his own name, is to provide in a measure for the care of his family, or other dependents, in the event of his death."
"But, having the money for a paid up policy, could not the young man, without any expense for clerk hire or rent, invest it, and reinvest it with the interest, as long as he lived, and thus make by insuring himself?"
"The endowment policy, while payable if death should occur before a fixed time, specifies the date when it shall be payable to the insured himself, if he should live till that time."
It is just Harry's prudence and she is used to that.
"Never go into a partnership with a man who puts in his experience against your capital, unless you know him like a brother."
"If the time is not specified, a partner may withdraw whenever he pleases."
"LIABILITY In all matters rightly belonging to the business of a firm, any member has the right to act, and his acts will be held binding in law."
"The consent of the other partners is necessary, and before he is released he must provide for his share of the obligations."
"This is a method of association whereby a person joins a partnership, putting in a sum agreed on, and which he may stand to lose as an investment."
"CAPITALISTS The capitalist not only has money of his own to invest, but he may and very often does need more money properly to exploit the enterprises in which he is engaged."
"The lender's profit is assured if the enterprise does not fail, and the added capital not only insures against failure, but it may enable the manager to succeed beyond any expectations he could have if forced to carry on the work with only his own resources."
"Whatever is left after paying the preferred stock interest is divided up equally among the shares of common stock, each getting according to his holdings."
What the buyer must satisfy himself of is: 1. Who is the seller?
WEEDING OUT Every man in trade should make an inventory of his stock at least once a year.
"LET YOUR WIFE KNOW It is usually wise for a woman, married or single, to keep her real estate and her money, if she have any, in her own name."
The woman's deftness comes from her experience.
All this can be quietly inculcated into the mind of the child without making him old-fashioned or miserly.
"The better way for the farmer, the merchant, or the manufacturer, when he feels the years pressing heavily and that he can no longer attend properly to the old demands on him, is to shift by a properly drawn contract the business management of the enterprise to his children, or to those whom he wishes to place in charge."
"If this should not be done, then it would be well to keep it in the safe of the bank in which the testator has his account."
"In this case a good plan would be to write to the owner of the note, asking him to send it by a certain bank in your neighborhood where you can pay."
"Find a good honest lawyer, despite sneers to the contrary, we believe most men in the profession are of this character, and ask his advice, and pay for his help if papers are to be drawn."
"It is a disgrace to the Christian organization that, after forcing down the pastor's compensation to the barest cost of life's necessities, then force him to run into debt if he and his family would live, or to be forced continually to remind the trustees that his salary is far in arrears."
"Let it make no difference, banker, merchant, kinsman or friend, do not fear to give offence, but right then and there, count the money he gave you."
The professional thief is ever on the watch for chances to take unto himself all the money in sight.
"An instrument under seal, by which a person binds himself,   his heirs or assigns, to do or not to do certain things."
Money forfeited for detaining a vessel beyond the time   named in her Charter party.
A title to real estate held without conditions by a   person in his own right.
The right which the seller has to stop the   goods he has shipped any time before they reach the buyer.
